joining us now here on set for the
interview is Lisa page she's a former
FBI lawyer special counsels a deputy FBI
director Andrew McCabe Lisa page has
been the target of unrelenting attacks
from President Trump and his allies ever
since the Justice Department published
her personal text messages two years ago
this is her first television interview
since leaving the FBI last year miss
page thanks very much for being here
thanks so much for having me in terms of
the way this played out ultimately
you've become a poster child along with
several of your colleagues for these
claims from the president and now
increasingly from the current an
attorney general that the Trump Russia
investigation was cooked up on the basis
of false allegations or even some sort
of conspiracy specifically to hurt his
chances of getting elected now of course
the problem there is that nobody in the
country knew about that investigation
before people had the chance to vote on
him and I just I mean as an observer
I find that flabbergasting how does it
strike you and how does that comport
with your understanding of that process
given what you just described there is
no one on this set of facts who has any
experience in counterintelligence who
would not have made the exact same
decision this is a question about
whether Russia is working with a United
States person to interfere in our
election we were obligated to figure out
whether that was true or not and to
figure out who might be in a position to
provide that assistance in terms of the
critique that I just implicitly made
that if there had been some sort of
conspiracy against candidate Trump that
could have just as easily been leaked to
the public so people would know about
that when they went to the polls is that
a fair critique it is a fair critique
but we were extraordinarily careful not
to do anything that would allow this
information to get out before we knew
what we had you described as I mentioned
the sort of self-consciousness around
the Clinton investigation that everybody
involved was very conscious that
everything that was done was going to be
scrutinized that anticipatory sense of
scrutiny as I've talked to James Comey
about it seemed to drive some of the
decisions in terms of public disclosure
in terms of what kind of blowback the
FBI would get given what has happened
familiar to everybody who was involved
in that Russia investigation do you look
back now and recognize any of the same
self-consciousness about that was it the
same sense that this sort of scrutiny or
blowback was gonna be brought to bear on
on all of you
I wouldn't characterize it that way
because this was a counterintelligence
investigation first and foremost you
know the FBI conducts
counterintelligence Investigations every
day and no one ever hears about them and
no one will so it's entirely possible
that this investigation could have ended
that way had nothing been found had
there been no relationship between
people on the Trump campaign and people
in Russia it's entirely possible this
could have remained a secret
investigation for the very reason that
you wouldn't want to unfairly prejudice
if you found if in fact you didn't find
sufficient connections between the
Russian Federation and members of the
Trump campaign that's obviously not what
Muller ultimately found but you you
shouldn't assume that account until
counterintelligence investigation will
be made public because the vast majority
of them are not given what you've been
through over the past couple of years
why speak now on your own terms
honestly I just wasn't planning to and I
didn't want to I've led an entirely
anonymous life and hoped to return to
one and when the president you know
finally did that vial sort of simulated
sex act in a you know rally in
Minneapolis I just finally had to accept
it's not getting better and being quiet
isn't making this go away and it's
wasn't working for me anymore since you
did the interview with The Daily Beast
and since you opened your public Twitter
account and have been able to make
public statements in that forum the
president has not slowed down he last
week at a rally I believe intimated or
said that he didn't know if it was true
or not but he heard that she'd had to
get a restraining order against Peter
struck down that's how that all worked
out you have said on publicly on Twitter
that that's a lie nothing like that ever
happened of course not but if this
doesn't slow down the president
attacking you is it still the right
thing to do I mean it's haven't changed
so I don't see why I would continue
doing the same thing yeah at least I
have my voice out there at least if you
want to respond
on to me instead of this caricature that
you've drawn up about me you talk about
what it was like and sort of how you
found out and what your thought process
was when you learned that these text
messages that had been investigated by
the inspector general had not just made
their way into public consumption but it
actually been given to reporters by the
Justice Department who told reporters
that they shouldn't source them to the
Justice Department explain where they
got them but it wasn't back the DOJ who
gave them out that's correct
tell me how that felt I mean it's it's
really one of the more painful aspects
of this entire two years I mean the
president's attacks and assaults are one
thing but this is my institution this is
my Justice Department betraying us and
you know if there's there's an element
of this is a claim that well this is
congressional oversight and we had to do
it I have been a part of both these
institutions for a long time and I know
what it looks like when you're trying to
when the department is trying to protect
people and protect information and I
know what it looks like when they're not
there were plenty of ways to fulfill
their congressionally mandated oversight
responsibilities without politicizing
our messages without shovelling them out
in the way that they did why do you
think they did it well my speculation is
because this was not a great time for
the Justice Department
you had Attorney General Sessions
constantly beleaguered and being
lambasted by the president for failing
to sufficiently protect him you had rod
Rosen Stein going to the hill early the
next morning I think it served a useful
foil one of the things that's happened
over the course of these past couple of
years is that you've been this sort of
Apogee point in terms of the way the
president and his supporters and
conservative media have gone after you
but we've also seen different iterations
of it against other civil servants and
career career public servants people
like Murray Ivanovich and fiona hill and
basa
lieutenant colonel Alexander VIN Minh
and others who have popped up in the
impeachment investigation as fact
witnesses I wonder if that too has sort
of deflected your feeling about any of
this or if you have any anything that
you'd like to say in terms of the way
that they've been treated
I mean it's deeply unfair we are all
public servants this is simply not the
way even with wrongdoing even if you
think that my my text messages were were
a mistake this is not how public
servants should be treated and moreover
those institutions should be coming to
their defense you know we can't control
what the president says but sure as the
day is long the Attorney General bar
could say something about whether this
was appropriate or not secretary Pompeo
could say something about whether these
people deserve the land passing that
they've gotten in terms of the text
messages and the allegations that have
been made against you you've sort of
explained yourself in time and putting
these those text messages in greater
context in terms of what they meant and
the way they were used against you can
you explain to us tonight what was meant
by for example the insurance policy text
message so this is you and Peter struck
texting about the prospect of that
President Trump is going to be elected
the unlikely prospect right I mean it's
an analogy first of all it's not my text
so I'm sort of interpreting what I
believe he meant back three years ago
but we're using an analogy we're talking
about whether or not we should take
certain investigative steps or not based
on the likelihood that he's going to be
President or not right you have to keep
in mind if President Trump doesn't
become president the national security
risk if there is somebody in his
campaign associated with Russia plummets
you're not so worried about what
Russia's doing visa be a member of his
campaign if he's not president because
you're not gonna have access to
classified information you're not gonna
have access to sources and methods in
our national security apparatus so the
insurance policy was an analogy it's
like an insurance policy when you're 40
you don't expect to die when you're 40
you still have an insurance policy so
don't just hope that he's not going to
be elected and therefore not press for
it if the investigation hoping but
rather press forward if the
investigation just in case he does get
in exactly what about the text message
that in which you instruct were talking
about your sort of fear that Trump Trump
would be elected and he said no we won't
let it happen I mean by we he's talking
about the collectively like-minded
thoughtful sense
people who were not gonna vote this
person into office you know obviously in
retrospect do I wish he hadn't sent it
yes it's been mutilated to death and
it's been used to bludgeon an
institution I love and it's meant that
I've disappointed countless people but
these this is a snapshot in time
carrying on a conversation that had
happened earlier in the day that
reflected a broad sense of he's not
going to be President we the Democratic
people of this country are not going to
let it happen and in terms of the
litigation of this issue the question
about whether or not this as the
president and his supporters claim
reflected some inherent political bias
by you and mr. struck and that you had
key roles to play in these
investigations and therefore the
investigations are biased I mean the
Inspector General has looked at that
been critical of these expressions of
strong political views but also said
that there was no indication that that
political bias affected any decisions in
either of these investigations
full-stop you responded to that on
Twitter by saying cool cool like good
luck basically good to know but it won't
make a difference it won't make a
difference then it's two years too late
right it's been three straight years of
investigation by the inspector general
dozens of lawyers and investigators
poring over every investigative step
that I took every text in every email
and they've realized what I've known
from the beginning which is that my
personal views had no impact on the
course of either investigation but to my
cool-cool point two days later you see
Lindsey Graham in the Senate spent 40
minutes reading text messages again
these are three years old
they're been described as immaterial
ultimately by the Inspector General and
yet we're still talking about them
they're still talking about them on the
eve of the president being impeached we
can't ignore that contact Lisa I'm gonna
ask you this in part because I don't
have very many other people I can ask
this and you can tell me if I'm off base
but in May 2017 the Russia investigation
gets taken over by Muller you're
involved at that point you served
briefly on Miller's team that's how I
first came to know your name should we
the public understand that the special
counsels investigation looked at this
core scary question of whether the
president was
object to leverage or influence by
Russia or any other foreign force or was
that the kind of counterintelligence
investigation that you're talking about
before which is secret which we'll never
know about which might in fact be
ongoing so it's really the former are
they my understanding and what the
Mullen report describes is that they
were looking at criminal activity right
so they were trying to determine whether
there was a criminal conspiracy to
engage in crimes against the United
States they did not look at the
counterintelligence sort of
relationships between members of the
Trump campaign because that was a
different investigation well it was the
same investigation at the FBI I think
this was a prosecutorial choice made by
the special counsels office but while it
was still at the FBI the two were
essentially one in the same we were
looking at at both simultaneously the
social counsel's office as best I
understand chooses to focus on the
criminal aspects of that investigation
thank you for being willing to talk to
us about it tonight this your first TV
interview I appreciate the trust that it
takes to be willing to be here Thanks
thank you Lisa page I'll be right back
[Applause]
hey there I'm Chris Hayes from MSNBC
thanks for watching MSNBC on YouTube if
you want to keep up to date with the
videos we're putting out you can click
subscribe just below me or click over on
this list to see lots of other great
videos